# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis

## Overview/Purpose
Pewlett Hackard is trying to prepare for a surge in retiring employees.  A good portion of the employee base is reaching this age and the company wants to be prepared.  In order to prepare, the company has asked for detailed information about these employees as well as some employees who might be able to fill these vacated roles.  In order to accomplish these tasks, I created 4 different tables by combining and organizing existing data sets.  The first table shows all employees that are of retirement age as well as all positions that employee held or still does hold.  The second table lists the retirement eligible employees with only their current role at the company.  The third table lists the number of eligible retirees in each department.  The fourth table lists the employee information of employees that may be suited to take over the vacated positions and/or be mentors/mentees in a mentorship program.

## Results
Here are four takeaways from the information that was collected:
- The number of employees in the mentorship program is vastly smaller than the number of retirement eligible employees.  The program only found around 1,550 people for the program, while the number of possible retiring employees is 90,398.  This was done with a sum query on the retiring_titles table.  I’m not sure exactly how they plan on the program working, but this is a large discrepancy.
- The starting data from each file only contained information of the employees that were born before the year 1966.  This gives an idea on how many employees that are reaching a certain age.  Personally, I would like to see the percent of employees in each department that may be of this age so that I know which place to begin looking for recruits.  The raw numbers at a company this large make it difficult to know exactly how much of the workforce might be leaving.
- About half of the workforce that needs to be replaced seems to have a background in engineering. It would be good to begin looking for engineers to replace this set.
- I did another query on the data set to find the number of employees that were born in each year.  This query produced data that showed that it seems the company has about 18,000 employees that were born in each year from 1952 to 1964.  This number had little variation from year to year.  Without knowing the number of employees after this year it is tough to make too much of a prediction but it seems that 18,000 employees per year would be a good start to replace the workforce.
